# Plot the predicted effects from a Bayesian distributed-lag model (B-DLNM).

It plots the lag-specific, overall, slices, contour or 3D
representations for predicted effects generated by
[`bcrosspred()`](https://pasahe.github.io/bdlnm/reference/bcrosspred.md).

## Usage

``` r
# S3 method for class 'bcrosspred'
plot(
  x,
  ptype,
  exp_at = NULL,
  lag_at = NULL,
  ci = "area",
  ci.arg,
  ci.level = x$ci.level,
  cumul = FALSE,
  exponentiate = NULL,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  An object of class `"bcrosspred"` returned by
  [`bcrosspred()`](https://pasahe.github.io/bdlnm/reference/bcrosspred.md).

- ptype:

  Character. Plot type: one of `"slices"`, `"overall"`, `"3d"` or
  `"contour"`.

- exp_at:

  Numeric vector of exposure values (predictor) for the `"slices"` plot
  type (maximum length of 4).

- lag_at:

  Numeric vector of lags for the `"slices"` plot type (maximum length of
  4).

- ci:

  Character. How to plot credible intervals: one of `"area"`, `"bars"`,
  `"lines"`, `"sampling"` (draw a line for each posterior sample) or
  `"none"`. Default: `"area"`.

- ci.arg:

  List of graphical arguments for the plotting of credible intervals
  passed to base plotting functions (see `Details`).

- ci.level:

  Numeric in `(0,1)`. Credible interval level. Default is taken from
  `x$ci.level`.

- cumul:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, plot incremental cumulative predictions (requires
  cumulative predictions in `x`).

- exponentiate:

  Logical. Set to `TRUE` to plot exponentiated effects (relative risks)
  and to `FALSE` to not plot them. The default is `NULL` in which the
  function uses `x$model.link` to automatically detect whether to use
  relative risks (when link is `log` or `logit`).

- ...:

  Additional graphical arguments passed to base plotting functions (see
  `Details`).

## Value

No return value, called for side effects.

## Details

The function supports different visualizations for posterior effects
predicted by
[`bcrosspred()`](https://pasahe.github.io/bdlnm/reference/bcrosspred.md)
specified in `ptype`:

- `"slices"`: (optionally multi-panel) line plot of the predicted effect
  over lag(s) for selected exposure value(s) or over exposure value(s)
  for selected lag(s). Use `exp_at` and/or `lag_at` to specify which
  slices to draw (at least one must be supplied). At most 4 slices of
  each type are allowed to keep layouts readable. See
  [`plot.default()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/plot.default.html),
  [`lines()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/lines.html) and
  [`points()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/points.html) for information
  on additional graphical arguments.

- `"overall"`: plot the predicted overall cumulative effect over the
  whole lag period for each exposure value in the prediction grid. See
  [`plot.default()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/plot.default.html),
  [`lines()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/lines.html) and
  [`points()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/points.html) for information
  on additional graphical arguments.

- `"3d"`: 3D plot of the surface of the predicted effect for each
  exposure and lag. Uses the median of the posterior samples. Not
  meaningful for single lag models. Additional graphical arguments can
  be included, such as `theta` or `phi` (perspective), `border` or
  `shade` (surface), `xlab`, `ylab` or `zlab` (axis labelling) and
  `col.` See [`persp()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/persp.html) for
  additional information.

- `"contour"`: filled contour of the surface of the predicted effect for
  each exposure and lag. Uses the median of the posterior samples. Not
  meaningful for single lag models. Additional graphical arguments can
  be included, such as `plot.title`, `plot.axes` or `key.title` for
  titles and axis and key labelling. See
  [`filled.contour()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/filled.contour.html)
  for additional information.

The function will call the specified original base plotting functions
for each different `ptype`. Via the argument `...` the user can change
the graphical parameters that will be passed to these functions. See the
original functions for a complete list of the arguments. Some arguments,
if not specified, are set to different default values than the original
functions.

Credible intervals will only be drawn for `ptype` equal to `"slices"` or
`"overall"`. The type of credible interval will be given by the `ci`
argument, with options `"area"` (default), `"bars"`, `"lines"`,
`"sampling"` (draw a line for each posterior sample) or `"none"` (no
credible intervals). Their appearance may be modified through `ci.arg`,
a list of arguments passed to to low-level plotting functions:
[`polygon()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/polygon.html) for `"area"`,
[`segments()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/segments.html) for `"bars"`
and [`lines()`](https://rdrr.io/r/graphics/lines.html) for `"lines"`.
See the original functions for a complete list of the arguments. As
above, some unspecified arguments are set to different default values.
The credible interval level will be given by `ci.level` or inferred from
`x$ci.level` by default.

If exponentiated effects (relative risks) are specified
(`exponentiate = TRUE`) or auto-detected if `x$model.link` is `log` or
`logit`, the function will use the predicted relative risks stored in
`x$matRRfit`, `x$allRRfit` or `x$cumRRfit` (if `cumul=TRUE`).

In the presence of unlagged or single lag associations, only the
`overall` plot can be produced. In this case, the `overall` plot
represents the effect at each predictor value, rather than the overall
cumulative effect across lags.

## Note

This function is inspired by
[`dlnm::plot.crosspred()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/dlnm/man/plot.crosspred.html)
developed by Gasparrini (2011) <doi:10.18637/jss.v043.i08>. It has been
adapted to work in a Bayesian framework within the bdlnm package.

## References

Gasparrini A. (2011). Distributed lag linear and non-linear models in R:
the package dlnm. *Journal of Statistical Software*, 43(8), 1-20.
<doi:10.18637/jss.v043.i08>.

Quijal-Zamorano M., Martinez-Beneito M.A., Ballester J., Marí-Dell'Olmo
M. (2024). Spatial Bayesian distributed lag non-linear models (SB-DLNM)
for small-area exposure-lag-response epidemiological modelling.
*International Journal of Epidemiology*, 53(3), dyae061.
<doi:10.1093/ije/dyae061>.

## See also

[`bcrosspred()`](https://pasahe.github.io/bdlnm/reference/bcrosspred.md)
to predict exposure–lag–response associations for a `"bdlnm"` object,

[`bdlnm()`](https://pasahe.github.io/bdlnm/reference/bdlnm.md) to fit a
Bayesian distributed lag non-linear model (`"bdlnm"`).

## Author

Pau Satorra, Marcos Quijal-Zamorano.

## Examples

``` r
# Set exposure-response and lag-response spline parameters
 dlnm_var <- list(
   var_prc = c(10, 75, 90),
   var_fun = "ns",
   lag_fun = "ns",
   max_lag = 21,
   lagnk = 3
 )


# Set cross-basis parameters
 argvar <- list(fun = dlnm_var$var_fun,
                knots = stats::quantile(london$tmean,
                                 dlnm_var$var_prc/100, na.rm = TRUE),
                Bound = range(london$tmean, na.rm = TRUE))

 arglag <- list(fun = dlnm_var$lag_fun,
                knots = dlnm::logknots(dlnm_var$max_lag, nk = dlnm_var$lagnk))

 # Create crossbasis
 cb <- dlnm::crossbasis(london$tmean, lag = dlnm_var$max_lag, argvar, arglag)

 # Seasonality of mortality time series
 seas <- splines::ns(london$date, df = round(8 * length(london$date) / 365.25))

 # Prediction values (equidistant points)
 temp <- round(seq(min(london$tmean), max(london$tmean), by = 0.1), 1)

if (check_inla()) {
 # Fit the model
 mod <- bdlnm(mort_75plus ~ cb + factor(dow) + seas, data = london, family = "poisson",
             sample.arg = list(seed = 432, seed = 1L))

 # Prediction
 cpred <- bcrosspred(mod, exp_at = temp)

 # Perform the plots:

 #Overall
 plot(cpred, "overall", xlab = "Temperature (ºC)", ylab = "Relative Risk", col = 4,
 main="Overall", log = "y")

 #3-D plot
 plot(cpred, "3d", zlab = "Relative risk", col = 4, lphi = 60, cex.axis = 0.6,
 xlab = "Temperature (ºC)", main = "3D graph of temperature effect")

 #Contour
 plot(cpred, "contour", xlab = "Temperature (ºC)", ylab = "Lag", main="Contour plot")

 #Slices (for a high temperature)
 htemp <- 23
 plot(cpred , "slices", exp_at = htemp, col=3, ylab="RR",
 main=paste0("Association for a high temperature (", htemp, "ºC)"))

 #Slices (for lag 0)
 plot(cpred , "slices", lag_at = 0, col=4, ylab="RR", main=paste0("Association at Lag 0"))

}
#> Warning: Since 'seed!=0', parallel model is disabled and serial model is selected, num.threads='1:1'
#> Warning: Centering value unspecified (`cen`). Automatically set to: 12.85.





```
